Title: Asking for a permission number
Date: 2018-12-31
Tags: advising

If I have directed you to this page, it is because you requested a permission number (PN) from me as your advisor, but I need more information. The department requires me to make sure a permission number is appropriate before I request one for you. You can save us both time by making sure your email addresses the below.

** Basics **

1. What class are you trying to sign-up for?
2. Did you try to sign up for it yet?
    * If yes, what happened?
    * If no, why do you think you need a code?
3. Do you have PNs for any other classes? List the classes.
4. Did you need a PN for any class in a prior semester? List the classes.

** Noteworthy Situations **

If any of these situation apply to you, mention it.

* The pre-req is a course I never took at SSU but passed at another college.  
    * Does it show up in your transfer report?
    * Does it appear on your ARR as credit for the pre-req?
* The pre-req is a course I took 3 or more times before I passed it.
* The pre-req is a course I repeated, but at another college

** Things PNs don't fix **

* Waitlists.
    * Sorry, my PNs won't get you off a waitlist.
    * Solution: talk to the instructor. They may know how to help.
* Time conflicts. 
    * Sorry, my PNs won't resolve time conflicts
    * Solution: do time conflict paperwork with the instructors of the conflicted classes.
* Taking courses out of order
    * Sorry, my PNs won't let you fudge pre-reqs, or turn pre-reqs into co-reqs
    * Solution: talk to the instructor.
* Overriding credit units caps.
    * Sorry, my PNs won't let you sign up for more units than you are allowed. 
    * Solution: do the paperwork to petition for extra units.
